Selenium 4 migration guide (work in progress) (#784)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/web-apps/automated-testing/selenium/selenium4.md

</tr>
<tr>
<td>Force W3C Usage</td>

> <td>Selenium 4 deprecates support for legacy JSON wire protocol and its static <code>DesiredCapabilities</code> browser methods, replacing it with <a href="/dev/w3c-webdriver-capabilities">W3C WebDriver-compliant protocol</a> and the use of <code>browserOptions</code>. You must completely switch from using JWP to W3C; Selenium will no longer be backwards-compatible. The W3C standard will be supported by default under the hood. </td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>Selenium 4 deprecates support for legacy JSON wire protocol and its static <code>DesiredCapabilities</code> browser methods, replacing it with <a href="/dev/w3c-webdriver-capabilities">W3C WebDriver-compliant protocol</a> and the use of <code>browserOptions</code>. You must completely switch from using JSON wire protocol to W3C; Selenium will no longer be backwards-compatible. The W3C standard will be supported by default under the hood. </td>
```

Reviewer 2: static browser methods are completely gone in Se4

</tr>
<tr>
<td>Relative Locators</td>
<td>New way of locating elements based on the visual placement on the page. Relative locators use more natural language friendly terms, such as “above”, “below”, “left of”, “right of”, and “near”. <a href="https://github.com/saucelabs-training/demo-java/blob/main/training-sessions/selenium4/src/test/java/com/saucelabs/selenium4/new_/RelativeLocatorsTest.java">See a code example</a>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>New Window and Tab Utilities</td>
<td>New command that allows you to create and manage new tabs and new windows. <a href="https://github.com/saucelabs-training/demo-java/blob/main/training-sessions/selenium4/src/test/java/com/saucelabs/selenium4/new_/NewWindowSauceTest.java">See a code example</a>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>

> <td>Print Page as PDF</td>

Reviewer: Missing an example below!

Author: Hi @titusfortner , for the **Print Page as PDF**, do you have an example in GitHub? the only ones I could find are in Diego's doc https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IZ-Pk2XjU5gEX1heRjjLq-E0ee-ezF8GXhqc5bWSoFM/edit

<li>Firefox Context If you want to change something like a profile where dirs are downloaded mid-test, you can change it on the fly. <a href="https://github.com/saucelabs-training/demo-java/blob/main/training-sessions/selenium4/src/test/java/com/saucelabs/selenium4/new_/FirefoxContextTest.java">See a code example</a>.</li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Setting Network Conditions with Chrome and Edge</td>
<td>Selenium 4 exposes a set of utilities to modify network conditions in Chromium-based browsers, such as: Going offline, Setting a latency for the connection, Alter the upload or download throughput. This can be useful to test web applications under different network conditions. Allows throttling (extended debugging) without executing JavaScript. <a href="https://github.com/saucelabs-training/demo-java/blob/main/training-sessions/selenium4/src/test/java/com/saucelabs/selenium4/new_/ChromeNetworkTest.java">See a code example.</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Chromium Edge Options methods (Se3 technically only supported Edge HTML)</td>

> <td>?</td>

Reviewer: I'm sure you know this is missing, do you have an example @titusfortner ?

</tr>
<tr>
<td>RemoteWebDriverBuilder (Java Only)</td>
<td>Prior to Selenium 4, in order to use browser specific-options, you had to cast it and augment it (access local webdriver methods). There were a lot of defaults and you didn’t have many options for starting a driver. With Selenium 4's new <code>.builder()</code> method, you can send <code>browser.options</code>, timeouts, and create a hashmap instead of having mutable capabilities. <a href="https://github.com/saucelabs-training/demo-java/blob/main/training-sessions/selenium4/src/test/java/com/saucelabs/selenium4/new_/RemoteWebDriverBuilderTest.java">See a code example</a>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>New Element Attribute and Property methods</td>
<td>Two new methods have been added to more precisely get a given element attribute or a property. These are especially useful for performance and preciseness in Sauce Labs tests. <a href="https://github.com/saucelabs-training/demo-java/blob/main/training-sessions/selenium4/src/test/java/com/saucelabs/selenium4/new_/AttributePropertyTest.java">See a code example</a>.</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Preparing Your Test Code

> Because Selenium 4 deprecates support for legacy JWP (`DesiredCapabilities`) &#8212; replacing it with W3C WebDriver-compliant (`browserOptions`) &#8212; you'll need to prepare your test code accordingly. Using W3C `browserOptions`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Selenium 4 deprecates support for legacy JSON wire protocol (`DesiredCapabilities`) &#8212; replacing it with W3C WebDriver-compliant (`browserOptions`) &#8212; you'll need to prepare your test code accordingly. Using W3C `browserOptions`:
```

* Simplifies the configuration needed to start a new session.
* Allows you to set browser-specific settings (like headless in Chrome).
* Reduces the chances of browser misconfiguration.

### W3C WebDriver-Compliant Capabilities

> You must structure your test capabilities to be W3C-compliant and switch from `DesiredCapabilities` (JWP) to `browserOptions` (W3C), otherwise they'll be ignored.

Reviewer: These tabs for the different browser options are brilliant, I love it!

Author: thank you!

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

List of [W3C WebDriver standard capabilities](https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver1/#capabilities):
* `browserName`
* `browserVersion`
* `platformName`
* `acceptInsecureCerts`
* `pageLoadStrategy`
* `proxy`
* `timeouts`
* `unhandledPromptBehavior`

Any capability not in this list must include a vendor prefix. This rule applies to browser-specific capabilities as well as Sauce Labs-specific capabilities. For example, if you want use the `build` and `name` capabilities in for your Sauce Labs tests, you'll need to wrap them in a `sauce:options` block ([see the examples below](/web-apps/automated-testing/selenium/selenium4/#platform-configuration-examples)).

#### Platform Configuration Examples

> Below are examples comparing the usage of legacy `DesiredCapabilities` with the new `browserOptions`.

Reviewer: @titusfortner the example with the `Map<String, Object> sauceOptions = new HashMap<>();` seems overl complicated, could we just create a simpler example without this for Java?

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

For more information, see [W3C WebDriver Capabilities Support](/dev/w3c-webdriver-capabilities). To view all possible platform configurations, see the [Sauce Labs platform configurator](https://saucelabs.com/platform/platform-configurator).

> ## Upgrading Your Dependencies

Reviewer: This is a brilliant idea, great example!
